GSoC Webservices 2019 Submission (#1)
a-samoylov/joomla-cms: GSoC_submission.md

# GSoC Webservices 2019 Submission

> This page to record the progress made during Google Summer of Code program in the last three months.

Author: ```suggestion
This page records the progress made during Google Summer of Code program in the last three months.
```

## About the project

> This project is a continuation of the implementation of webservices in Joomla. Webservices are API layer that helps third-party developers work with a Joomla website. This can significantly improve the popularity of Joomla CMS, because it will help to create very functional and complex integrations with sites made on Joomla.

Author: ```suggestion
This project is a continuation of the implementation of webservices in Joomla. Webservices are the API layer that helps third-party developers work with a Joomla website. This can significantly improve the popularity of Joomla CMS, because it will help create very functional and complex integrations with sites made on Joomla.
```

## Work done

> You can get vew the **specification** of the project [here](https://github.com/joomla-projects/gsoc19_webservices/blob/master/manual/en-US/gsoc-2019/specification.md).

Author: ```suggestion
You can view the **specification** of the project [here](https://github.com/joomla-projects/gsoc19_webservices/blob/master/manual/en-US/gsoc-2019/specification.md).
```

> During the work on the project, implemented **API layers for core Joomla components** and **documentation**, implementation of **API for Weblinks extension** and **guideline** how to implement it.

Author: ```suggestion
The work I've done on this project consists of: implementing **API layers for core Joomla components** and **documentation**, plus the implementation of **API for Weblinks extension** and the **guideline** on how to implement it.
```

##

Implemented **Core Joomla APIs**:

* com_banners
* com_categories
* com_config
* com_contact
* com_content
* com_fields
* com_installer
* com_languages
* com_menus
* com_messages
* com_modules
* com_newsfeeds
* com_plugins
* com_privacy
* com_redirect
* com_tags
* com_templates
* com_users

Code: [Pull request](https://github.com/joomla/joomla-cms/pull/26002)

> To work with the Joomla API **documentation** you can get it here [here](https://docs.joomla.org/J4.x:Joomla_Core_APIs).

Author: ```suggestion
The Joomla API **documentation** is available [here](https://docs.joomla.org/J4.x:Joomla_Core_APIs).
```

##

> It was necessary to implement an **API for Joomla weblinks extension**, it is important to create a guideline for the community.

Author: ```suggestion
It was necessary to implement an **API for Joomla weblinks extension**, in order to provide a guideline on how to add and api in a component for the community.
```

Code: [Pull request](https://github.com/joomla-extensions/weblinks/pull/407)

> **Instructions for implementing the component** have been created and you can find it [here](https://docs.joomla.org/J4.x:Adding_an_API_to_a_Joomla_Component).

Author: ```suggestion
**Instructions for implementing the component** have been created and you can find them [here](https://docs.joomla.org/J4.x:Adding_an_API_to_a_Joomla_Component).
```
